# Downtime

Between adventures, the DM might ask you what your character is doing during his or her downtime. Periods of downtime can vary in duration, but each downtime activity requires a certain number of days to complete before you gain any benefit, and at least 8 hours of each day must be spent on the downtime activity for the day to count. The days do not need to be consecutive. If you have more than the minimum amount of days to spend, you can keep doing the same thing for a longer period of time, or switch to a new downtime activity.
Downtime activities other than the ones presented below are possible. If you want your character to spend his or her downtime performing an activity not covered here, discuss it with your DM.

> This 'Downtime' took place between Adventures 4.1 & 4.2

---

## Cedar

### Week 1

Upon waking on your first day of your downtime, you decide that despite your now three weeks of solitude, you want a friend to keep you company. Someone a little more reliable than the companions you travel with, and perhaps less likely to set you, or anything else on fire. Making your way down towards the harbour you enter the district of ‘Heapside’. It’s fairly run down, but you remembered one of your companions mentioned seeing a stable when they went to the seafarer’s guild.
Upon arriving you find a simple looking stable, with a merchant willing to rent or sell horses to anyone who wants them. Welcoming you over, you see he has a fine shire horse in front of him. It is a beast of a horse, standing well over 10 feet high and built like a gatehouse. Whilst tempted, at the back of the stable you catch the eye of what you believe to be a very young pony. Standing only 3 feet tall, she seems to be quite timid and scared. Enquiring after her, you find that the merchant simply laughs at the notion of you being interested in her. He warns you he has been feeding her for weeks and she doesn’t seem to be getting any bigger. Undeterred you part with the ‘measly’ 15gp he ‘values’ her at, and you take your new companion.
Casting speak with animals, you discover she is actually already fully grown and is a special breed of horse called a ‘Elfin Pony’. She has short legs, brown and white fur, and a vivid blonde mane. She is super friendly and informs you her name is Florence. You being you, immediately start calling her ‘Flo’ and she doesn’t appear to hate the idea of a nickname, and seems to just enjoy someone wanting to spend time with her.
Heading to the Market District you make your way to ‘Hammer & Anvils’ blacksmith and enquire after a breastplate. Happy to oblige they make you a good deal of 380gp on a ‘like new’ breastplate. They even offer a special deal where for 10gp, they will actually use a special oil to ‘tint’ the metal of the plate any colour in the rainbow. The rest of the week passes by with you spending time getting to know your new friend.

### Week 2

Your second week begins with the goal to catalogue as much of the flora and fungi of the city as possible. Given your work in the grand library, the Temple are more than happy to let you back into the greenhouse to take detail notes. A small patch of daisies appears to have called an empty pot home, and you spend a fair amount of time drawing and painting them. So much so you even start to mix your own paint colours to shade the picture more accurately.
After you tire of note taking, you make your way back over to the Market District to see if any of the florists have anything of note. Sadly, for you, it’s much of a muchness. Although Flo does seem to be nudging you fairly aggressively towards a stall selling cinnamon rolls. Whilst you haven’t cast speak with animals at the moment, you feel like you have a pretty clear idea of what she wants, and 2 silver pieces later, you have both had more than enough cinnamon rolls to last a week or two.

### Week 3

After three weeks in the city, you are starting to get a bit fed up with city life. Also, the fact the scratching post are starting to get pretty upset with you isn’t helping. You are not entirely sure what their issue is, but you think it might have something to do with the fact you keep insisting a pony has to sleep with you in your room otherwise ‘she might get cold’. This being the case you decide to head out into the local forest for a while. Dernal Forest is not fair from Gullet Cove and whilst it can get a little dangerous if you venture too far in, as long as you stick to the outskirts, all will be fine.
You spend your evenings looking up at the stars, feeling at one with nature, and in the day time, you spend time with Flo trying to understand how to actually ride her. Despite your druidic upbringing, you have only now realised, you actually have no idea how to actually ride a horse. A few tumbles here, and a couple of unexpected falls there, both you and Flo develop a code that means you can actually ride her without falling off. That is, as long as she doesn’t put the brakes on too fast.
But it wouldn’t be a good trip to the forest without some serious ‘tripping’. So, on the last night, you decide to empty your entire stash of catnip for one mega session of huffing. You visit places, see faces, and in general lose all sense of reality. You awaken the next day having lost your notepad entirely. When you ask Flo what happened, apparently you told her the previous night that you were going to eat your notepad now, as it would ‘save time’ in the morning. Whatever that means? There is only one page left, which is the lovely painting of the daisy you did a few days before, which you have unceremoniously nailed to a tree, right through the centre of the picture.

---

## Elstiana

### Week 1

Your first week passes by quickly. Gullet Cove is a pretty large city and even with your ability to recall a general layout of the land, it is still pretty complicated. During your time you were able to quickly see the multiple districts that make up the city.
There are the classier districts, for example, over by the manor house is ‘Manorborn’. The market appears to be in a district called ‘Waukeens Promenade’, and the lower class of citizen is resigned to districts such as ‘Heapside’ by the harbour. There are many more districts each with their own characteristics, but those were the most noticeable. The same system seems to apply about each of the respective inns, those in the classier districts appear nice and well maintained, and those on the other side of the city are, well, not.
Whilst the scratching post is a perfectly acceptable establishment, given your new found wealth in this city, you do wonder what a night at a classier establishment such as The Silver Sovereign might be like.

### Week 2

As you pass into the second week of your downtime, you start to spend some time listening the towns folk, visiting the arcane specialists, and even subjecting yourself to the rambles from The Astronomer of Solaris.
In general, it seems that magical phenomena are both everywhere and nowhere at the same time. Everyone claims to have seen something at some point that couldn’t be explained, and magical energy is the only answer.
One phenomenon of note sticks with you however, despite your short time on this plane, you have noticed the rather quick seasonal cycle in this land. Whilst you have decided to embrace this on the most part, you have noticed there is a questionable mist and some thick black clouds on the horizon. They are some days away, but needless to say, it doesn’t quite seem normal, and even a few of the captains appear nervous.

### Week 3

The third week of your time off rolls around, and your dreams have been becoming more and more vivid. The crimson stone you carry appears to be having a bit of a strange effect on you, the smell of every, single, warm-blooded creature is getting unbearable. The smell is like the sweetest thing in the world, but at the same time, like the greatest cut of meat possible, cooked to perfection.
You know this is not normal and you have tried everything to get rid of this stone. You tried to banish the stone with magic, throw it away, leave it in the forest, you even tried to hide it in a crate destined for a ship. No matter what you seem to do, the stone always finds its way back to your bag. You have been doing your damnedest to resist the call, but it’s getting unbearable.
This morning you caught your reflection in the mirror and noticed, your eyes were bloodshot. Your face drawn in, your complexion pale and your teeth, appear to be getting a little pointier. Enough is enough, you need to satisfy this hunger, somehow. Luckily you spent a fair amount of time exploring the town and found a few places in Waukeens Promenade that might just be shady enough to give you what you need.
You find a questionable shop in a back alley, painted in black with a window full of old tomes and dusty items. No one comes here often, and given why you’re here, that’s for the best. You negotiate the purchase of a vial of blood, you are not sure who it belongs too, or how fresh it is. All you know, is it cost you 55gp, its apparently human and it should satisfy this hunger, for now.

---

## Elvis

### Weeks 1, 2 & 3

Your downtime is a little different from most, wanting to use some of your newly discovered material and life stories, you begin a three-week long circuit of performances. There are four open inns across Gullet Cove and you decide that each are in need of a few nights of what you are playfully calling ‘Elvis After Dark’.
For your first series, you decide you want to stick close to your fanbase, here in The Scratching Post, and as always you are greeted with a warm welcome. They were going to have a few nights of comedy, but when you told the inn keeper of your new set list, they scratched their plans entirely to make way for you. Signs have been plastered all over the inn and flyers distributed around the surrounding district of Norchapel, so naturally you have drawn quite the crowd. Opening with a joke, you go into your set list and it all seems to go pretty well. You note that a couple of your songs still need work, and a few of your jokes and stories that bridge the songs might need some tactical rewrites, but the crowd didn’t notice, and that’s what matters.
You do a couple more nights here which all go well before you decide to take a night off. Instead electing to indulge in a new form of gambling in the town, called ‘Pirate Dice’. The game seems simple, each player roles a dice out of view of the other players, and each of you wager on who has the highest number. It seems simple enough and interestingly you can bet on others having a higher number than you. You decide to use your charlatan's die to help influence this game, which goes well at first. Until the stakes seem to get raised, and all of a sudden each of you must roll 5 dice and then predict who has the highest total. The game goes on, and you get away only losing 10gp, which given how much was being bet at one point, is somewhat of a blessing. Deciding that gambling may end up getting expensive, you move on with the circuit and visit the next inn.

Your next set in the Murkey Retreat goes about as well as can be expected. Several of your loyal following have come to enjoy the show, but in this part of town, with this many ex-sailors, your songs lack a certain shanty like quality they are looking for. You are able to get away with it for the first night without any real hiccups, but you certainly didn’t get the standing applause you are used too. The second night somehow manages to go a little worse, they seem even less happy to see you than they were the previous night, and by the third, things are being thrown at the stage. You even tried to swap a few of your songs into a sea shanty variant, but given your lack of time spent on the ocean, your shanty seems to come out with a posh Neverwinter accent, which REALLY doesn’t work.

Not to be disheartened you head to the Water Bowl, in a much nicer part of town than the previous place. Here people seem a bit more welcoming to you and seem to like the ‘common charm’ your songs bring. This certainly isn’t a classy pub, but some of the clientele wish they were. Each talk as if they have money, but most still quibble their bar tab which often barely breaks a few silver pieces. A few nights here and any confidence you lost from the previous place returns, and the locals appear to be getting into it a little more.

For your last visit you decide to head over to the Silver Sovereign. Easily the most prestigious place on the calendar, you have a feeling you might need to adjust your setlist for tonight. You are welcomed to the stage by a tall thin elven woman who you assume has never seen the sun before, as her skin is so pale, and covered in a white powder, she is ghostly white. The crowd do not get to their feet as you walk in the stage, instead each does a minimalistic quiet clap. You start with what you assume would be a hit of a song, the tale of the time you bought the wrong soap and smelt like roses, instead of peaches. But it seems to get no real response at all from the crowd. You start to play the next song and part the way through your set, a string snaps on your harp, and you let a small out a small string of profanity out. This seems to warrant a small chuckle and cheer from the crowd. Taking this as a sign, your quality of song diminishes to little more than smut and abuse. But they love it. Your last song is some pure uncut filth about how a local stable boy was caught with, well, best not mentioned really.

---

## Kerwyn

### Week 1

For your downtime you decide you want to go and revisit the life of crime you recently abandoned for a life of adventure. Heading to the thieves guild, you are reminded of why you joined in the first place, and further more why you ‘left’. Stolen by some kind of arcane magic user, experimented on and cast aside when they were done, they have been in virtually every waking thought for some time. They would believe it was to thank them and remember how you came to be awoken in the first place. You on the other hand view it as a chance to image the multitude of ways to remove his still beating heart and show it to him.
Heading to the guild you walk through the district of ‘Black Dragon Gate’, a fairly rough part of town, its primary source of income appears to be illegal activities inflicted on the rest of the city. You are presented with a shut door, but are soon able to pass all the various thieve based checks to be allowed in. Although they have no memory of you. It’s possible it may relate to the fact the last time you were here you were not awoken, and also, you know, were an entirely different colour.
It doesn’t take long before you find a solid looking crew of thieves looking to hit one of the fancier houses in the city. It’s not your ideal job, not enough chance for blood and violence. Needing to get back into the swing of things, you decide to do your part. The planning goes by quick and your job is simple. Get in, get out, and take anything not nailed down. The night comes round and the job begins. You scurry across town under the cover of darkness and make your way to a large family home. One of your companions is able to pick the door lock and you’re in. A few moments go by and you realise that this house is covered in a thick layer of dust. No one lives here, except the valuables. They are brand new, untouched and more importantly not covered in dust.
IT’S A SET UP.
Knowing what this means you run for the nearest exit, a window and make a break for it. Fortunately, just in time, as you hear ‘I serve the Flaming Fist!’ and several of the town guard kick the door down and burst in. You remember from your planning you were warned of an elite group of the Golden Collar who have broken away and branded themselves ‘The Flaming Fist’. You don’t know much about them yet, but you are sure they will show up again in the future. Your first job in a while hasn’t exactly gone to plan, but you haven’t been locked up, so it could be worse.

### Week 2

For the next week you make your way back to the guild and spend some time trying to get to know people, see if there are any faces you remember, or any people who might have information on your boy. Time has passed and it would seem anyone who knew the name of the boy hasn’t heard from him since. They do warn you his name was a known alias, so it’s likely it’s been changed several times since then.
That’s not to say he lied to you by any means, but you know yourself, it is better in these circles to not have a persistent identity. Instead to adopt the approach of changing your name based on the circle you are in. You do however manage to get the name of a particularly good bounty holder in the guild, who you are sure would be willing to give you a job if you or your companions ever wanted to branch out into a new line of work.

### Week 3

For the third week, you decide to focus on your kidnapper, the one who branded the number 18 in your fur, something you have neglected to tell your companions. You don’t know that much about him either, aside from the fact you were not the first he abducted, in fact, you were the 18th. He seemed to cite you as his most successful experiment, but given most of your predecessors died painful and violent deaths, the bar was set rather low. Cast aside when he was done, you were dropped in the middle of a forest somewhere after being drugged, you have little information to go on.
Pouring over books in the library, and the various thieves, no one seems to have heard from him in several years, with a few suggesting he had died. But you know someone like that doesn’t simply ‘die’ of natural causes, and this is probably some kind of play. The question is, what is he up to?

---

## Ptolemeow

### Weeks 1 & 2

Over your time in the group, you have found yourself to be the resident holder of virtually all the potions and magical liquids. That is, if the goblin doesn’t drink them first. You however appear to have two that you have no idea what they do, so you decide to make your way towards the Wizards Tower. Walking through the city it appears unusually busy, and there is somewhat of a buzz around the town of some circuit of performances some bard is doing. You decide to give it a miss and it would seem the further from the scratching post you get, the less people are talking about it. Which is good.
Walking through the various districts of the city you arrive at Cliffgate on your way to the Wizards Tower. The tower is on the outside of the main wall, and is a tall and precarious looking building. It appears to lean to one side and you wonder how it is still standing after all these years. But regardless you knock at the door and wait to be let in. As experts in magic, arcane and alchemy you are sure they will have plenty of material to help you work out what these two potions do.
You start with the curious dragon potion. The bottle contains a crimson red liquid and the picture of the dragon drawn on the side is on a rather tatty and old looking label. The liquid inside appears entirely untouched as far as you can tell. It takes some time and some research but you find this seems to be some form of transformation potion, and based on some of the core ingredients, and the picture of the bottle, you believe it has something to do with scales. You have been able to work out that if someone were to drink this, they would transform for a period of exactly 24 hours. You’re not really sure on where or why that would be useful, but you are sure it may have a use eventually. If nothing else, it might be fun to feed to one of your companions to see what happens.
You then move to the second potion, the curious wolf one. The bottle is fur covered and the ingredients resemble a thick sludge that sloshes about. When opened, bestial snarls, howls and wails emanate from within. You spend a lot of time with this potion, longer than the dragon one just trying to work out what it does. You also waste a good few hours terrifying several of the wizards by sneaking up behind them and opening the lid. You are able to decern this particular bottle seems to curse the drinker temporarily with lycanthropy for one hour. It would seem the drinker is able to select which beast they would like to be, and for that hour they can change at will. A cool ability, you are concerned that something like this, is generally never given for free, but again, you never know when something like this might be of use.
\column

### Week 3

For your third week you decide you have had enough of books, and want to take part in some crime. You head over to the various guilds to enquire as to what they have going on, and if you can be of any assistance. The thieves guild have just the thing for you and present you with one of the more interesting bounties. Framing one of the local farmers for destroying his competitions farm. It is a strange request, as you’re not entirely sure who would benefit from this, but a jobs a job, and there is gold up for grabs.
This seems like the perfect thing for you, nothing too complex, but a chance to really let that sadistic side go a little. The farm in question is right in the middle of the city, just north of the Water Bowl, so you decide to use that as your base of operations. It’s a nice inn, with a fair number of patrons, including the two farmers. There is a lot of tension between them and they tend to keep their distance from one another. More importantly however, is if they are both here, you can go and inspect the farm and work out how best to destroy it.
A few days of meticulous planning and you have it, the perfect moment to strike. Naturally your plan is simple, but effective, steal the clothes of the farmer, sneak over and light the whole place on fire. Of course, being sure to leave a signed confession behind signed by the opposing farmer and walk away. That should about do it. It’s safe to say all this dry wheat went up a treat and it certainly takes a few days for the fire to die down. However, you don’t exactly care, you are 25gp up on the deal, and all it cost you were a few matches and a little time.

---

## Thnek

### Weeks 1 & 2

A few nights into your first week you get a little bored in the inn one night. It also wasn’t helped by the fact a dwarf walked in and started talking rather loudly of how they had recently dealt with an infestation of goblins in his home mine back on the mainland. Obviously upset with this you did what any self-respecting goblin would have done and punched his lights out. The fight was simple, it consisted of you hitting him, and then you hitting him again, and again, and again. At some point he lost consciousness, but you are not entirely sure when. Needless to say, he was carried out of the inn by his two companions and if he can see out of his left eye, you didn’t hit it hard enough.
Interestingly one of the other patrons of the inn approaches you after seeing your brawl and says you have some serious potentially and he would like to be your manager for the upcoming pit fights. He is even willing to offer you something in return for your services, reading lessons. Initially you are not sure if he too deserves a beating, but given your lack of ability to read, and the occasional mocking your companions give you, this seemed like a fair trade.
The next night you begin your rounds as the new pit fighting champion. You enter the ring and you are faced with some half-elf with about as much promise as a wet paper bag. But I guess you have to start somewhere, right? The bell rings and within seconds the half-elf is on the deck, bleeding from the face. You would like to be proud of this victory, but this was only your first punch.
Not to leave you waiting long the next challenger enters the ring. This time you find yourself faced with a half orc. At last, a challenge. The bell rings and he runs at you swinging wildly. This being a pit fight, and him having an obvious size and weight advantage, you pull a crazy slide move straight through his legs and in the confusion land a pair of quick punches to the back of his knee. With the first jab, you hear what sounds like a bone break, and with the second you shatter what remains of his knee entirely. The half orc hits the deck, clutching a leg which has the structural integrity of a sausage, and you land a pair of punches to the face and he is out cold. The crowd go wild.
This same streak continues for a whole week, in the day time your new manager spends time, teaching you the basics of reading common, and at night, you break the faces and limbs of anyone willing to oppose you. Going in to what is the last night of your fighting, you have your last reading lesson and have a command of the basics of reading. You’re starting to understand what letters make what sound, and how basic sentences are structured. Needless to say, you are not about to go and read ‘The Entire History of Arcana’ by The Wise Alaundo. But you think you can probably manage ‘Gobby & The Cave of Diamonds’, with a little help here and there for some of the bigger words.
Your last fight starts, and you await the challenger. There are plenty of cheers for you, it would seem people are quite excited to see you. Until a hush falls over the crowd, and they start to give a low deep hum. There appears to be some form of rhythm to it, although you’re not sure what. This is your challengers entrance music, the crowd know it, and he appears to have quite the following. Before you, enters a dwarf. He is built like a castle gatehouse, with fists the size of a small animal. You feel yourself getting angry, but even you let out a small gulp at the size of his arms. You know if he hits you it’s going to hurt, so your only chance is to hit him first. The bell rings and you run flailing wildly at him, you swing with a right, a left, another right, and finish up with a rabbit punch to the gut. He doesn’t even flinch. You have unloaded everything you have, connected every time, and he didn’t even move. He simply says ‘My Turn’ and he lets off three quick fire punches. The first with his main hand which connects with your ribs, it hurts a lot, but you can tell he didn’t give anywhere near his all. The second with his offhand hits your shoulder, which somehow hurts more. The third hits your face and you instantly black out. Never has the phrase 1-2-punch ever meant more to you, than right now.

### Week 3

It takes you a good few days to recover after your defeat, to a dwarf no less, but you know you can’t lay around all day. Deciding to try something else you head over to Timory’s Shipyard Wonders, to see if you can do some work for him. Skilled with your hands, he finds a job for you working on hammering very large, very heavy bits of wood together for a secret project. Whilst he doesn’t ever tell you what it is, you do get a sneak peek at a couple of his secret plans. From what you can make out, he is working on a new form of trebuchet that is able to launch people safely behind enemy lines, with a large sheet to slow their fall. He seems to be suggesting these ‘brave’ souls would be called ‘paratroopers’ although you’re not sure who would ever be stupid enough to actually do it.
