# Main Harbour

Gullet Cove is many things. But most importantly, it’s a port. Ships are supplied and fitted out here for lengthy voyages; they also end their trips here, dropping off vast quantities of cargo which the Guilds and the hundreds of merchants and traders all quickly descend on, picking out the best bits and making ready to sell them on - at a tidy profit! The port is the town’s most important and busiest place. It is constantly busy - even at night, sailors wander the streets (most of them having just been thrown out of one tavern and already looking for the next) and those merchants who are happy to make their money by illegal means as well as lawful do a little extra business on the side.

The port consists of the docks, always crowded with ships both large and small, and the various warehouses in which goods are stored before they can be sold on. The streets near to the broad, open sweep of sea and the various mooring points are close and claustrophobic. The warehouses are large, looming buildings and, as Gullet Cove has become a richer and busier town, more have been built in a space scarcely able to accommodate them. At night, when the mist drifts in from the sea, and the few lanterns which hang from isolated way-posts or the signs of small, grim-looking taverns cast shadows, the docks can quickly become a dangerous and threatening place to be. It is perhaps this which has resulted in such sinister rumours gathering around the place - no respectable citizen visits the docks after the sun has begun to set. Strange creatures are said to venture up and into the streets during the night, prowling the secluded streets, or breaking into the warehouses to filch whatever they can. Who knows what truth there is in such wild claims? Certainly, it is difficult to believe the claims of skulking men with the visages of rats. Or of rats which move with the coordination and intelligence of humans. But the stories persist, nevertheless.

Less outlandish are the stories of the secret meeting spots dotted around the docks, in which black market deals are struck and bargains are made. These are all kept concealed from the towns Watch, but are, it is said, tacitly approved of by the Council who recognise that a certain degree of illicit trade is, in fact, good for business. The late-night deals are conducted in carefully protected and carefully concealed trading houses. These are sometimes at the back of the various rough taverns which nestle in between warehouses, sometimes in the side-rooms of warehouses. Other times, the deals require even more clandestine locations: it is well known that the Thieves Guild and the Cradle possess secret hiding places throughout the town and, for the right price, those in the docks can be accessed. Of course, it isn’t cheap and requires a long-term contract being signed with the Thieves Guild which is, or at least can be, somewhat dangerous for those who don’t read the fine print. The Thieves Guild aren’t just good at picking pockets literally; they are also extensively skilled at tying the unsuspecting in legal knots and taking their money that way. For those merchants who can afford the exorbitant rates (or have lawyers as good as the Thieves Guilds), such meeting spots are the best place to conduct the shady business for which the docks are infamous.

## Crime

Crime is everywhere at the docks. The Thieves Guild basically looks at the docks as a kind of free-for-all buffet, pillaging any merchant’s pocket and any unguarded packing crate. This often leads to eruptions of violence and, more problematically, the Thieves Guild having access to things they shouldn’t. And the Rat King’s goons operate here, using the Thieves Guild’s activities to cover their various thefts, but what, exactly, are they hoping to build?

- The Thieves Guild purloined something very dangerous — a magical flute which, if played, just might bring a demon king crashing down into the earth. Someone needs to get it back. And possibly talk with the wizard who ordered it in the first place!
- The Rat King’s minions infest a warehouse; every night there are rattles and mechanical shrieks as they slowly assemble a machine. But what is it, and what do they intend to do with it?
- Merchants have been disappearing and are demanding protection, threatening to forsake Gullet Cove altogether. The only link between the vanishing merchants is that they all had cargo onboard a ship called Virtue’s Folly. Someone needs to investigate what’s going on before the whole town riots!

# Port Warden’s Office

A small, dilapidated, and thoroughly dirty little building stuck between two large warehouses, the Port Warden’s Office is the nominal point of authority in the docks. What this means, in reality, is slightly less clear...while once, the Port Warden was a position of respect, this hasn’t been the case for some time. Now, the Warden is usually awarded to an old member of the Seafarers Guild who isn’t too drunk or too corrupt. That, at least, is the aim. It doesn’t take long for the Warden to find the money in their pocket is far more enjoyable than the supposed duties of the Port Warden. When the position was established, the Warden was meant to be an impartial arbiter - ensuring that mooring fees were paid, that crime was controlled, that smuggling wasn’t too rampant. There was even, once, a team of Port Guards who served under the Warden, policing the various merchant ships and pirate craft that used the docks. Now, however, the Port Warden is considered something of a joke, when they are thought of at all. The ships that do bother to pay mooring fees usually pay directly to the Thieves Guild (to persuade them not to steal the cargo) or to the Seafarers Guild. As the power and prestige of the Port Warden declined, so did the office...what was once whitewashed, clean and carefully maintained is now all grimy glass windows and peeling paint. The door is clinging to its hinges and sways maniacally in the sea wind that has also left most of the office’s roof a mass of broken tile and mouldering wood. Within, there are several desks and chairs, and, at the back, what was a small prison cell for those who attempted to dodge paying taxes and fines. Now, it lies open and is mainly used to store the confused tangle of paper, slates, and vellum scrolls on which the Port Warden’s records are kept. The cell is the only dry place in the office now, and the records are the only reason the door to the office is ever kept locked. Who knows what information might be found, hidden in amidst stacks of receipts for mooring?

The current Port Warden is Gaius Vandel. Gaius is well-known throughout the docks as reasonably honest as far as Port Warden’s go. A tall man who walks with a pronounced stoop having spent far too long below decks during his life, Gaius isn’t flagrantly corrupt (unlike several of his forebears) and considers himself a dutiful seneschal, opening the office every day, and even occasionally moving some of the papers in the cell around, to make the place look tidy. While Gaius doesn’t spend more than an hour a day in the office, to open it at all is a considerable improvement on many who held the post. For the rest of the day, Gaius wanders along the docks, ostensibly to keep an eye on things, but in actuality to enjoy himself in the various pubs which dot the area and keep an ear open for the kind of useful information he might be able to sell on to his contacts in the various Guilds. Gaius was never a particularly loyal member of the Seafarer’s Guild, unlike most who become Warden, and, as a result, he is able to make a tidy living picking up tidbits from those who made their way into dock. This makes him a valuable resource for those hoping to find out precisely what is going on in Gullet Cove. He’s also friendly, though cautious, until he’s had enough to drink of course. Though he isn’t always the most reliable of informants once he’s had too many.

## Vandel’s Real Activities

Whilst he may look like an absent minded drunk (which is not altogether untrue), Vandel is also something of a spy master — he trades information with everyone in the port, especially the Guilds, but he also has contacts throughout the world. Want to know the price of fish in a port on the far side of the ocean? Vandel can probably tell you. Information is Vandel’s main concern, and his constant wandering from pub to pub is as much about determining who is on the way up and who is on the way down as it is about drinking. Vandel’s passion for collecting information has led him to become a sort of on-again, off-again spy. Several foreign powers pay him considerable sums to keep a track on precisely who is docking at Gullet Cove, something which his Guild paymasters — most of whom aren’t aware of each other — might not look so kindly on. Vandel is always looking for potential agents he can pay to do some of the work for him…less chance of being caught out.

- ‘Fancy earning a bit of cash, you lucky people?’ Vandel needs some friends to help him out. All they must do is sneak into the bed chamber of the head of the Seafarers Guild and take a particular letter, kept in a particular draw. But what does the letter contain? And what does Vandel want it for?
- Sheltering in a gutter, Vandel has been badly beaten. A tavern brawl he lost, or is someone hunting the spy? Begging for help, Vandel promises money, information, whatever is needed if they’ll keep the assassin from finishing the job.
- You’re sure Vandel is tracking you, keeping a log of your activities. But why? What’s so special about you? And who cares enough to pay Vandel to trace you?
